jan 21 2025 
introduction with the professor and syllabus. Assignments and grading details along with course content were presented.


jan 23 2025
Today's class included introduction of Unix operation system, levels of programming languages. 
We learned that operating system is essentally visual representation of what is happening inside a computer when a command is executed by the user. 
There are several OS, but the one used used by most developers is Linux. We were introduced by essential command prompts that help to work with Linux operating system within the command line.


jan 30 2025
All of the data stored by digital devices is encoded as bits. A group of 8 bits is called byte.
We discussed several types of data representations during this class for computers. 

One way data can be represented is binary system. This is a way of representing data using 0s and 1s.
For reperesenting text ASCII or Unicode systems are employed by digital devices.
At the end of the class we were presented on how to save changes made to a file in a local repository and commit it to remote repos such as Github.

feb 4 2025
During today's class types of data representationwere introduced. 
First, the answer to the question "What can we do with data?" was answered. We can store, Process, Transmit and represent data. There are two ways of representing data: tables and mindmaps, the latter being more intuitive visually.
Since data types vary siginificantly it is important to organize them appropriately. For this information that will be
stored as datais divided into two categories - actual information and definition of information.

feb 6 2025


feb 11 2025


feb 13 2025
This class was about operators and expressions.
We learned about various operators usied in c syntax.
For example arithmetic operators, logic (&&, || etc)  as well as bitewise (binary, &, |) operators, their differences. 


feb 18 2025
Reading files
iput - .txt, .bin these are filetypes

Different modes when opening 
r - read
rb - read binary
w - write



feb 20 2025

Usage and app of XOR bitewise operator. 
QUIZ


feb 25 2025
This class included discussion of final projects and recommendations of some libraries that could be used during our final project development.
The professor recommended using visual libraries (gnuplot), interpolations, MNIST and other libraries that enable working with textual data and encode/decode it.

feb 27
A program is a passive set of instructions on disk; a process is an active execution with its own memory and resources. Threads run within a process and share its memory, unlike processes which don’t share memory and must communicate externally.

We can think of monks translating a text: each monk (thread) gets part of the text (shared variable) from an aggregator and returns the translation. If each monk has a vocabulary copy, no further communication is needed.

To manage shared data safely, we use mutexes:

    Init: pthread_mutex_init(&mutex, NULL)

    Lock/Unlock: pthread_mutex_lock/unlock(&mutex)

    Destroy: pthread_mutex_destroy(&mutex)
 
march 18
Midterm preparation. Students were called to solve sample problems from the midterm.

march 27

FSM - state machines
input - hardware - state


enum stat {
	RED,
	GREEN,
	YELLOW
};


april 3
We created a custom string.h and started writing its functions.
Defined:

typedef struct { } string;

Also defined:

typedef struct user { char* name; int age; };

A user object uses 8 bytes for the pointer and 4 bytes for the int.

Declaring vs defining functions:

    Declaration tells the compiler a function exists.

    Definition provides its actual code.

Using extern before a variable tells the compiler it's defined elsewhere; without it, it looks for a definition.

Libraries are included with #include.
The linker connects function calls with their definitions across different files during compilation.

 
a[ril 8
Continuing the custom string library:

    Pointer initialization: Always initialize to 0 (NULL) to avoid undefined or garbage addresses.

    string_concat: While implementing, an error occurred due to copying the terminating \0 from the first string too early.

    strcpy vs strncpy:

        strcpy copies the full string including \0.

        strncpy limits how many bytes to copy, possibly excluding \0.

    string_find: Searches for a character in the string, returns its position.

    Ternary operator:
    K = (Z) ? X : Y;

        If Z is true, K = X; otherwise, K = Y.



april 10
Continuing the implementation of the string library.

april 15 2025
Project Discussion with program chair Satenik. 



april 17 2025
april 22
We got back our midterms.
Today's class was an introdutciton to data structures: vecor and list. Vector or array is similar to string. Sequential array of values is vector (memory is random access container. any element can be accessed in const time, which is the same for every element).

Lists consist of nodes, the node contains data and pointers to next and previous nodes.



may 6
We discussed sorting algorthms and their applications. For data types that are not comparible, we can define operators. We were introduced to several sorting algorithms such as bubbld sort, insertion sort etc.


may 8
ontinuing with sorting, merge sort works by dividing the array into two halves, sorting each, and merging them by comparing elements. We first implemented merge sort on arrays, then moved to linked lists.

To support this, we modified the list.h interface to simplify merging, specifically by adding a list_get function that returns a node*. This made direct access and manipulation during the merge process easier.




